[jazz music]
[Peter] So Hessam,
we're right here on the line, correct?
On the line on I-630 in Little Rock.
For Little Rockians that means
on the South Side you got the hood.
On the North Side you got the nicer areas.
I was told when I did some research on
Little Rock it's like two different cities.
Pretty much.
-We're gonna see it all today?
-We're gonna see it all.
[Peter] So this is the weekend here.
-Downtown, super quiet, huh?
-Yeah.
Walking down the main street,
capital city in Arkansas.
It's like a country road.
We're not just doing 30 seconds
of walking down the middle of the road.
-We've walk the whole block.
-We've walked the block.
Okay this is an interesting place.
I got in last night, Hessam.
To most of us in the country
Little Rock is known for,
I hate to say it, tough place, crime.
That's the stereotype I would say.
Not much else. Okay, Clinton Library.
You're saying
we got a different tour today.
Yeah there's a lot of nice areas
that most people wouldn't even think
exists in Arkansas in general.
-You're born and raised here?
-Yes sir.
-Parents from Iran?
So in the past few years
the city of Little Rock
has kind of like put more emphasis
and care into downtown.
I read somewhere they have a plan to
double the residential population
in the next few years.
-Here we go. Nice old building.
Looks like they're doing something
or no one's there anymore.
-It's got potential.
-Yeah.
We got for lease here.
What's going on here?
What's going on?
The church calls it a block party where
they give away clothes, they have food.
Feel free to come up
and get something to eat.
Just getting to know each other.
-You drinking that Jesus Christ?
-Yes I am. It tastes so good.
-What's your name?
-My name's Brian Phillips.
You got some clothes for sale?
-Yeah clothes. Sometimes they have
haircuts set up, baked goods for sale.
They have that for the kids
and just fun activities man.
Just everybody from the fellowship
and people walk up
and get them a plate also.
Thank you. See ya.
Okay so we got the church here.
New Life Church.
Want a muffin?
They're raising money
for a mission so let's do it.
I'm gonna put you on camera man, Hessam.
Two muffins please.
We got banana nut, blueberry,
wild berry, and then cinnamon streusel.
-I like the banana one.
-Two bananas, yeah.
Two bananas.
So how's it going so far today?
It's going great.
-You're part of the church?
-Yeah.
Yeah. They're raising money,
it's gonna be his first mission trip.
-They're going to Peru for 10 days.
-Oh nice. Is it Mormon?
No. We're just a non denomination.
A Christian church.
Okay. Whenever I hear a mission
I think Mormon for some reason.
[laughs] No, you're good, dude.
-How much are they?
-We're just doing donations.
We're not setting prices on it.
So mission, that's cool.
So go proselytize down there.
Yeah. So they're going down
and part of what they're gonna be doing is
bringing in medical supplies
and stuff upriver.
They go to a river village and then they're
gonna be traveling upriver into the jungle
and actually delivering
medical supplies and stuff.
-Oh, you excited?
-Yes, sir.
Nice.
-You guys from here?
-Yeah, we're from Sherwood.
-Nice.
-We are close.
-Alright thank you man.
-Yeah of course.
Good luck with that. Have fun out there.
-Yeah have a blessed day.
-Thank you. God bless.
YouTube right?
Yeah.
Oh my gosh I watch you all the time.
Cool. What's your name?
-I'm Marquette.
-Marquette, Peter.
Oh I cannot believe,
My husband's not gonna believe this.
-What's your hubby's name?
-Dwayne.
Shout out to Dwayne. Shout out to Dwayne.
-It was nice meeting you.
-Thank you.
Okay first impressions 'cause this is
my first time in Arkansas right?
Last night at the hotel, just this morning,
everyone's super friendly.
-Oh yeah.
-Like that.
Very open, all smiles.
Most people here are like that.
You know it's the South.
You can bump into someone
and they'll apologize.
And you might even make friends with them.
So Hassam, your parents
came from Iran during the revolution?
-Yeah.
-You were saying off camera your dad
went to New York then was in Arkansas,
had a breakdown issue,
said the people were so friendly,
that he said,
"These are my people, I want to stay."
Pretty much.
He did not go back to New York.
--Okay so in your time here let's say
the last 10 years it's getting better?
-Yeah.
-Pandemic hit it pretty hard?
Pandemic did hit it pretty hard.
It kind of put a stop to some of the growth
but it's been picking up recently.
Friday and Saturday night
they shut these two blocks down
just 'cause all the bars here
get so packed.
-Okay this comes alive?
-Oh yeah.
I got to say it's pretty clean.
Like they're keeping it
pretty clean down here.
-Oh yeah definitely.
-So most of the guys your age that
grew up here, are they staying or leaving?
-I would say it's a blend of both.
There's a lot of people moving here
from California too.
-Just for cheaper living?
-Yeah.
I know this older lady
she sold her house in the Bay Area
paid for her house in cash here,
bought three brand new cars,
and she's just still
living off of that money
from just selling her house
in the Bay Area.
-What are you doing for work?
-I'm a residential contractor.
-So building homes?
-Yes sir.
[Hessam] This is like
an older neighborhood.
Mainly houses from the 1920s.
Really pretty architecture at that time.
[Peter] Oh that's beautiful. Look at that.
Do you know the cost of places
like this over here? These homes?
-They're not cheap.
If I'm not mistaken
they start around maybe $400,000.
-Okay.
That's beautiful.
-Arkansas Museum of Fine Arts.
-Mind if I jump out real quick?
-Sure.
This is really cool, guys.
One of those unexpected…
Wouldn't think this is Little Rock
type of scenes
that's coming from
my naive out-of-town perspective.
And look at this. This is beautiful.
Got some nice old art deco here.
Hi. Is this open right now?
-No?
-Yeah. I mean you can…
Look at these beautiful homes.
How you doing?
Your home's beautiful.
[woman] Thank you. I rent. I don't own it.
But what a cool place to be in.
It's great. I love it.
It's five apartments in here.
-Five apartments. Okay.
-Yeah.
-Good score.
A lot of cool architectural design here.
Look at this beauty.
Nice wrapping porch.
Stones above the windows like that.
And then you got this guy here.
Just a lot of beautiful
creativity and architecture down here.
And we're gonna see today,
you guys, that like any city
you have your good parts,
your bad parts.
But typically what works on YouTube…
is if I just showed conflict
and just went to the blight
and focused on that.
That would work pretty well.
This calm stable, clean,
beautiful stuff typically…
Well isn't as exciting
or full of as much drama.
So I try to balance it for you though
'cause I want it to be honest content.
As real as I can show to you
what I experience.
And a place like Little Rock
doesn't have the best reputation
and that's from someone
that's never been here or to Arkansas
other than when I landed
for 30 minutes when someone died on a plane
going cross-country.
So we dropped down
to Little Rock for about 30 minutes.
That's it.
So the goal today is to show you
from the nicest of the nice
to the hardest hitting
of the hardest hitting
'cause Little Rock still does have
a terrible relationship with crime.
-These are nice neighborhoods up here.
-Oh yeah.
[Hessam] Getting into the heights.
Old money area.
-A lot of old money here.
-A lot of old money.
[Peter] So you know
what's crazy about this city?
The crime index here is 1 out of 100
which means 99% of America
is safer than here.
Okay.
-I pulled this up last night.
-Wow.
Look I'm sure the crime
is not happening here.
-Not at all.
-And so all of it's concentrated
in just a couple zip codes.
-Which we're gonna go to today.
-Yeah.
16.77 violent crimes per 1,000.
Okay.
In Little Rock,
the national average is around four.
-Oh wow.
-These are statistics.
These are the numbers that you always see.
And if you never come to a place
you're just like
oh okay Little Rock is that, right?
And what I try to do
in these videos is to show
the full picture.
[Peter] Oh wow. Look at that.
-So now we're getting into mansionville.
-Oh yeah.
Some of the most expensive
real estate in Little Rock is here.
-How much are these places?
The houses here, I've seen them
really start at like $1.2 million.
There's a few houses that are
in the $2.5, $3 million range.
-I had no idea there's so much wealth here.
-Oh yeah.
Some Middle Eastern look.
Yeah. Actually Middle Eastern guy
lives there. It's a friend of ours.
-I called it. There you go. I can tell.
-Dr. Atik.
I put my time in
in the Middle East to know.
Whenever he retired his clinic
he forgave all the debts of his patients.
It was like $700,000.
And he forgave it, all of it.
-Where's he from?
-He's from Pakistan.
-What's this neighborhood called?
-River Ridge.
And this is pretty much the top.
Amongst the top. Yeah.
It's a huge flex to say
that you live in River Ridge.
-Do you want to live in River Ridge?
-I would totally live in River Ridge.
I mean look at this house right here.
Chateau style.
Got a nice sunset view of the river.
All that valley.
This house is a house
that my dad's building.
There was a house here.
They demolished it
and they're building new.
-Middle Easterner?
-Yes sir.
I could tell.
-Gold leaf on the door up there.
-Gold leaf on the door.
Got the guys working out today.
[Mexican music playing]
All right.
-Hola.
Mario, how are you doing?
Good.
So here's the view.
There's Downtown Little Rock.
Oh yeah. Okay.
So this city it's 230,000,
something like that.
Yeah.
And then the Metro is like 750,000 roughly.
Are we in the Metro or city proper?
We're in the city proper.
So the Metro area counts North Little Rock,
Benton, Bryant, surrounding areas.
-So this city sprawls
'cause we've been on the road for a while.
Oh yeah.
That's where we were this morning.
-Going all in Persian style.
All in Persian style.
You haven't even seen the beginning.
Let's go take a look.
-It's only for those that know right?
-If you know, you know.
If you know… I can see this a mile away.
So this is the family business?
Yes sir.
-It's an Iranian man or?
-Yes.
-Okay. Family?
-Yeah. Basically family.
All Iranians. We're all family here.
-Are there a lot of…
-Mr. Framunchi's practically my uncle.
-Are there a lot of Iranians
here in Little Rock?
In Little Rock I would say
there's a couple hundred.
-A little bit more than that.
-Okay.
Now we're getting into the main part.
-This is huge. How many square feet?
-7,300.
-Wow.
Great kitchen. Beautiful windows.
High ceilings.
A piece of Iran.
-Oh that's cool.
What language is that?
Old Persian. That's cuneiform.
So very few people can decipher it today.
That's old, old, old Persian.
It's like maybe 4,000 years ago.
-Then this is from the old place.
-Yeah.
-And you guys are gonna redo this?
-Redo the pool.
Almost every Iranian who's came here
has been able to pretty much crush it.
My dad came here started out
washing dishes 47 years ago
and now building houses like this.
Hey.
-This is the owner.
-Oh okay.
-How are you?
-Good.
-Peter.
-Malek.
-Malek, nice to meet you.
-Nice to meet you.
-So you're the owner of the home.
-I sure am.
And you moved to the US
right before the revolution in 1979.
What's your take on Arkansas?
And I just want to say no camera on you,
just on me correct?
-Yeah.
-Okay.
I love this state.
I've been in other states.
I've been in all 50 states.
None of them matches Arkansas.
None of them match Arkansas?
It's big enough but not too many people.
I drive from here to my office
which is in Redfield.
30 miles, it takes me 28 minutes.
-How about the people?
-Very good people.
Like Persians? Friendly, open?
-Friendly, open.
Of course you're gonna find
a little bit prejudice
and of society too.
And that's gonna be up to us
to educate them.
Have you guys had that much of that?
Being Iranian?
-Yeah. You're gonna have it.
-Little. Very little.
We are not media what you hear.
Yeah.
-Countries is now 3,000 years old.
Yeah. And I always say
there are people and the government.
Don't put them in one basket.
Anywhere in the world.
You know what I mean?
That's why I went to Iran.
I made videos of Iran to show Americans
and the world what I saw.
Some of the nicest people.
-And all they need,
even the government people out there,
I've been there a few times.
All they want you to do,
obey and respect the law.
Just like in America.
They want you to respect the law.
Some countries your freedom is this big.
And some other countries
the freedom is this big.
-Okay where's America?
This big.
-Where's Iran?
-This big.
Where's Arkansas?
-Arkansas is part of America.
But if you get out of this circle,
you ain't free.
You're outlaw.
You have to stay within the circle.
[Hessam] People's perception
from the outside
comes from that documentary
Bangin' in Little Rock.
They think that's all Little Rock is,
like just the hood,
gang violence,
crime.
They don't see these areas.
In Little Rock
there's something for everybody.
If you like nature, hiking, biking,
you come out to this part of the town.
Okay so we had downtown obviously.
Well the line.
We've been north of the line
the whole time today.
And now we're gonna go south of the line.
See the other side of the city basically.
Even though it's been a few
different cities so far. Right?
Yeah.
[jazz music]
[Peter] Alright so just like that.
It totally changes huh?
[Hessam] South of 630.
-Some cool old buildings I'm not gonna lie.
Like there's some nice ones but wow.
I mean this is like 10 minutes
from where we just were.
-Just about, yeah.
-Just about 10.
Some abandoned stuff.
-Bars on windows.
I'm sure there's a good community in here
depending on the place right?
Oh yeah definitely.
Church not happening anymore.
It's just such a stark contrast. I mean…
[Hessam] Back in the day
this was a great part of town.
Pre-'70s.
Some nice homes some places are kept well.
-Yeah.
-Nice lawns.
So some pride out here.
Some pride and then
the opposite of pride right there.
A lot of that stuff.
Hey I say we should get some food.
Oh let's ask these guys.
All right.
Yeah, I seen that face.
I knew who you were.
All right. Thank you sir.
Okay so barbecue.
Where's the best barbecue around here?
Sim's Barbecue on Roosevelt and Broadway.
-Broadway.
-Okay.
Now if you want to take the whole hog,
take the whole hog.
-Sir what's your name?
-Don.
-You lived here all your life?
-All my life. I ain't going nowhere.
All right. How are things these days?
-Wonderful.
-Wonderful?
-Yeah. Good friends?
-Prices as high as hell.
But one day I'm gonna meet old Trump
and ask him for a million dollars.
I need that. Yeah.
-Right? Prices are high right now?
-High as hell.
You're feeling it, gas, food, everything?
Yeah I am because I travel
between Little Rock and Dallas
'cause I work in aviation.
Oh okay.
-Build private jets.
-No way.
For Monsters Inc. last week.
I actually got the pictures.
-You build private jets?
-Yes I do.
That's cool.
-Do you love that work?
-Yeah I do.
-I love TV. Thank you brother.
-And you're doing a damn good job.
-Thank you.
-And just stay safe.
I appreciate it. Thank you guys.
Thank you.
[woman] Are you a cameraman?
Go down there to see him. His name Ronnie.
-Ronnie?
-Ronnie Sims.
-Go see Ronnie Sim?
-Yeah.
-We're doing it.
-Okay.
Y'all have a good one.
-[woman] Be careful in the city.
-Be careful?
-Yes.
-I remember his face too.
-Me?
-You know this guy?
-Yeah he look familiar to me.
-[Hessam] I'm from here.
-[Peter] He's an Iranian model.
-[laughter]
Is he?
-Hand model.
I got a lot of Iranians around here.
I talk sh*t wherever I go.
Ain't nothing like life, boy.
And a smile.
If you don't smile
you ain't gonna get sh*t.
Give us some… Give us some wisdom.
Life… Smile.
-What do you wanna tell the young people?
-Young people stay alive.
'Cause goddammit y'all leaving us alone
with all these young gals.
Live old, die young.
They dying young.
-They're dying young.
-They're dying young?
Leaving their kids behind
for me to take care of.
So just tell them I'mma take care.
How old are you?
67 and still living.
-You got a wife?
-Yeah. Right there.
And one down the street.
[laughter]
-Did you hear what I said?
-I heard you loud and clear.
Right there. And one down the street.
They gon' see it.
You 'bout to be put out of business.
It's so much more interesting.
We were just in
the most boring neighborhood in town.
-What hood you was in?
-What was we just went through?
We just came through from John Barrow.
Oh that's bored over there.
There's no one like you
with flavor over there.
-Sh*t.
-I need the jokes. I need the humor.
-Life is the humor.
-It is huh?
Yeah, enjoy yourself. You ain't got a smile
on your face, something wrong with you.
Always smile.
You go a long damn way.
You see this right here? Monsters Inc.
You see that?
-You're building those?
-Yeah.
-Good for you.
-That's Monsters Inc.
So you're one of the crew members
building the actual plane?
Yes.
How does that feel when it's done?
It's really great.
Like the ceremony is really nice.
I like to kind of represent
for the women
in aviation
because it's not a lot of women.
It's like a male dominated field.
So I just want women
to just keep pushing to be great.
-How'd you get into building planes?
Well it actually started on Indeed.
I applied and I started working at
a big one we have here called Falcon Jet.
They found me from Dallas
and they paid me a per diem
to go down there to work
because of my skill.
-It was nice to meet you.
-You too. Thank you.
[Peter] So Sim's BBQ is closed?
[Hessam] Sim's BBQ is closed.
This is the next best thing I think.
[man] Just five dollars right now.
[Peter] Hot dogs three pork chops five.
-I'll do a hot dog.
-Hot dog.
-Hot dog?
-Two hot dogs.
He gon' have to get it.
All right. What's your name boss?
-E.
-E, Peter.
So you just riding around in the hoods?
-With a camera?
-Yeah. Everywhere.
Not just the hood.
I want to show all sides of the city.
I like your courage, man.
-Courage?
-I like your courage, man.
But if you go to Louisiana
don't do that man.
-Don't do this in Louisiana?
-Don't do that in New Orleans.
I have done it in New Orleans.
-Where you was at?
-9th Ward. I've been all over.
I promise.
-It's better here than New Orleans?
-Yes.
-People nicer or what?
-They nicer here.
They just killed the bus driver
in front of 76 people.
They doing crazy sh*t.
-In New Orleans?
On the river. Dude killed the bus driver.
-Okay tell me about Little Rock.
How are things here these days?
Little Rock done got a lot better man.
Back in the '90s it was worse.
-So what are you wanting?
-Two hot dogs.
So it's gotten better?
Oh yeah, 100% better.
It's a nice place to live at now
compared to how it was back then.
-So when the movie came out.
-Bangin' in Little Rock?
-Yeah. That was mid '90s.
But that's what it was at it's worst right?
-It ain't nothing like that no more.
-Okay.
They tried to get it back like that.
So if I walked around
these streets solo mission
would I have a problem or no?
-Yeah you can.
-You can have a problem.
You can but basically it's different
like than from New Orleans now.
Because a Caucasian guy
couldn't just walk in any hood.
But since Katrina it's a whole lot better.
-In New Orleans?
-Yes
You know, I never dealt with
Caucasian people
until I moved to Arkansas.
-Seriously?
Yes I never even seen
a Caucasian woman pregnant.
-Come on.
-I promise you.
If you see Caucasian
in my neighborhood it was drugs.
-That's a nice grill, man.
-Thank you man.
That's when they made them well.
Just thick metal.
Oh, look at that.
-[laughs]
-Here we go.
-What's the name of the business?
Or just stop at the street corner?
What is it, Marshall?
Marshall and Asher.
-That's Wright Avenue.
-Wright Avenue.
Okay.
You want mustard and barbecue sauce?
Mustard barbecue sauce?
He likes barbecue.
We got the nice people over there. We just…
-I'll go check them out.
-Go check them out.
They got some good food over there.
African food, Nigerian.
Can you hold this?
What you got?
-I want to show your dogs here.
-We got my guy.
That's a $3 dog.
In 2026
you can't do much better on prices.
-Than $3 right?
-Yeah.
But I wish you well out here man.
-Thank you.
-All right.
I haven't had a dog in like 10 years.
-Why not?
-It's good.
[laughter]
I just haven't done dogs but it's good.
Do you work here too, sir?
No. He doesn't work here.
-I'm a customer.
-He's a customer.
He's a brother. He's a friend.
We grew up in this community.
This is our community.
We been here all our lives.
-We moved away, come back.
-Okay.
For the most part this is our neighborhood,
where we come from.
I sell health and wellness,
skin care, cosmetics.
I attend the Islamic center
across the street.
My mother and my father were Muslims.
And then we have Afro Bites.
We're all one community
under this umbrella of the Islamic center.
-Salamu alaykum.
-Wa alaikum as-salam.
[Arabic]
You know all the Muslim countries
I've been to.
-First, hospitality is fantastic.
-For sure.
Secondly, I like Ramadan.
I like the principles of Ramadan.
Yeah, it's discipline.
-It's discipline and it teaches gratitude.
-Yep.
And when you go without and then you
get the thing again it feels amazing.
What do you focus on?
That's what you got to look at.
-With life you mean?
-Yeah, with life.
Are you always focused on what's negative?
Are you paying attention to that more?
Are you paying attention
to positive things?
Being grateful for what you do have.
So then you will be able to receive more.
It's your focus. It's your mind.
-Have you always been like that?
-No. I haven't.
For me it was a growing thing.
It was experiencing life.
Different places. Different people.
But coming back to my ground roots.
We go out into the world
and we be like, "Ooh, the world."
Right.
And you start being a part of the world.
And my mom used to tell me
don't be of the world.
-And now I understand what she said.
-Okay.
About don't be a part of the world.
Make your own world.
Because the world that you see
is really not reality.
It's made up.
Because the world
is really what's in your mind.
What you believe about yourself.
So you can rewrite your story.
You can create the world that you want.
Just by seeing it in your mind
and doing the things outside
to cultivate who you want to be.
You gotta pray, speak, and ask
God for the things that you want.
And do your part in the work.
'Cause he will open doors
and bring you the right people
to bring that life into the world.
-And that's worked for you?
-Yeah. It really has. Honestly.
It really has. It's a mindset.
I don't watch TV.
I don't focus on negative things.
Even when things happen
I still look at it like
it was the reason why that happened.
So it really wasn't negative.
It may have been a great thing
that I didn't go into that area.
I didn't receive
that acknowledgment or whatever
because I may not be ready.
I may need to do
a little bit more work on myself.
-What age did you
come into this transition?
Oh my God. How old am I?
In my thirties. When I had my daughter.
It came a little bit before I had her.
But she really just propelled me.
She pushed me.
Because now I have somebody
looking at me.
I have somebody
that I'm responsible for.
What they see, what they eat,
how they live, how they perceive life.
That's my responsibility.
That's not nobody else's responsibility.
So if I don't change how I move
and the things that I do
then she's just gonna pick up on the BS.
You have to become
a whole new person when you become a mom.
I can't be out
doing the things that I used to do
in my young age when I was free.
But now I have someone
that's looking at me as an example.
And so I have to step up to the plate.
It ain't easy but once you do it
the rewards is when she's older
and how she's moving her life.
And the impact that I had on her.
And then she will carry that vision,
those ideas, into her everyday life.
You know what I'm saying?
So it's really a mindset.
It's all in your mind
'cause God resides in the heart.
So once you clean up your insides
and how you think,
God can really move in your life.
Because he's in there waiting
for us to realize.
He in here and he's not something
that you can find outside.
Because He already resides in the heart.
He made you.
A bird is always going to do bird duties.
It knows what it's supposed to do.
That's his nature.
But you as a human being, a living soul,
God gave you a choice.
He gave you a choice to be an alcoholic.
'Cause you choose.
You said you wanted to be.
You let that be
your main factor for your life.
So now you're an alcoholic.
Because you choose to do that.
You don't have the
strength or the ability to say
I don't want to do this no more.
Whatever it takes I'm not gonna drink.
That has to be a discipline.
That has to be a muscle.
That has to be a want.
You have to want to do it.
You may need to do something,
that don't mean you want to do it.
Your life is what you made it
because you chose.
Just like you chose to be with a guy.
He wasn't a good guy.
Now you got a baby.
Now you mad.
But you chose to be with that individual.
Same thing for a woman.
-So you're saying self responsibility?
-Yes!
Nobody's responsible for you.
Nobody can change your condition but you.
-And it's empowering
to know that and realize
you have more control than you think.
You have all the control.
God has the control.
But he has given you the power
to have control to choose
what you're gonna do.
Are you gonna go out
and visit the club today?
Are you gonna work on that new business
that you want to start?
You can't keep doing the same thing
over and over again
and think
you're gonna get different results.
You're not.
You're just gonna get the same sh*t.
So we're on our way to
the Latino side of Southwest Little Rock.
Geyer Springs, Baseline.
So a lot of these shopping centers were
pretty much empty
up until 15 years ago.
And now you see a lot of Latino businesses.
-Oh let's stop at a little drink place.
Yeah wow. That's like we went to
another country immediately.
[chuckles] Yeah.
The old coconut, some fruit.
Thank you, sir.
Cheers.
[man speaking Spanish]
[man] [Spanish] But it's something else.
[Peter] I look like a cop.
I can't help it, man.
Tell them I can't help it.
[Spanish]
I made a bunch of videos in Mexico.
Okay nice. All right, brother.
-Do you live around here, bro?
-No.
-Okay.
-Just came for this.
Nice. Thank you.
You want a drink or do you want the fruit?
-I really like the taro.
-Okay, taro.
Thank you brother. Appreciate it.
Hasta luego.
The crime here is a lot less
than the other side that we were just on.
-Mm-hmm.
And ever since the past 10 years
that's been more Latino businesses
coming here it's gotten a lot better
than what it was before.
-What was it before?
-Just like where we were at.
-Okay.
So like any city, different groups
are always getting moved around?
Yeah.
People that were here
living before where did they move?
Those who had money
moved to West Little Rock.
Okay.
And those who didn't,
they moved to the outskirts
like East End and those type of areas.
Hensley,
where that one guy was we just met.
Is there beef here? Is there friction
in that situation or not really?
-Not really.
-You don't really see it?
-It's pretty laid back.
-It's laid back?
-Yeah.
They're pretty scared of ICE.
They just go home, go to work,
and if they gotta go somewhere,
they'll go in like a pair,
or two, or three, just to be safe.
-What do you mean be safe?
ICE is gonna get all of them then right?
Well not exactly.
If one of them gets got
then the others would know about it quicker
'cause you run that risk of
someone gets taken
and you just never hear about it.
You would never know.
-Okay. The people you know out here,
the ones that don't have papers,
they're like laying really low.
Oh yeah, they're laying pretty low.
-So what percentage
do you think is legal versus illegal here?
-Legal?
-Yeah.
Maybe like 10, 15%.
-Is legal?!
Legal yeah.
Maybe 10% of them
have some type of papers or…
-That's a big number man.
Yeah.
-You really think it's that?
That's my personal opinion.
-Yeah there's no way of knowing for sure.
There's no way of knowing for sure
but you know based on…
-You'd say in this immediate area
that's what the story is?
Oh yeah, definitely.
-Wow. This is a mega trailer park.
-It's almost all Latino.
A lot of them that are legal,
they're from DACA or they were born here.
They were able to apply for their parents,
that type of deal.
-So has the Hispanic community grown a lot
in the last 10 years here?
-Definitely yes.
-Big time?
-Yes.
Absolutely nobody outside?
-Before maybe four or five years ago
you'd have some people hanging out
barbecuing playing some music.
Now they're just staying in,
hanging out inside.
-Okay so tough question for you. Ready?
-You have the magic wand.
-Okay.
How do you fix this immigration issue?
Like where we're at right now.
-Where we're at right now?
-Yeah.
Give me your simple fix.
Give everybody a social security
and a work permit.
For how long?
For however long would be reasonable.
Maybe 5 years, 10 years, you can renew it.
So they crossed illegally.
Just let that go?
I mean they're here.
They're here,
they're part of the workforce.
Yeah, the reality is
if everyone gets deported
good luck building homes these days,
or landscaping, or kitchens.
I do believe in following the law.
It was really murky
on the border for a while.
Where they're getting asylum claims.
When they were illegitimate asylum claims?
But everyone knew the story
and how to play it.
And it seems like the government
incentivized it almost.
At least when I was there.
Customs Border Protection guys
had to actually
process people.
Now there were rules.
Other than Mexicans couldn't get up here.
That's what's interesting.
They would send Mexicans back immediately.
But if you're from Colombia
you're getting in.
-Wow.
-Yeah it was wild.
And the rules change
and it's really murky and confusing.
It's a complicated topic all around.
So the city of Little Rock
has this program for homeless people
where they provide them with a job.
-Like that guy standing right there?
-Pretty much.
And they'll pay them
like 15 or 16 bucks an hour
to clean up the city, pick up trash.
There's actually been quite a few people
that have entered into that program.
And there was one in the news last year
that he entered the program
and he was able to buy his own house.
You know?
-This is a college area?
-Yeah.
You wanted to show this
'cause there's students coming?
Yeah. There's a lot of students.
-They rent out here.
-You rent out here?
-[man] I own.
-You own?
Yeah. Just got this guy.
Had it about a year and a half now.
It's great.
Neighborhood's cool. Neighbors are awesome.
This guy's from Serbia.
Jose's from Mexico. We're from Japan.
-No way.
-Yeah. For real.
It's very diverse.
-So it's like university rentals
and then a few owners?
Yeah. It's definitely
a very rental neighborhood.
-Being close to the university.
-Okay.
Found an awesome house.
My wife and I, this is our first home.
-Congrats man.
-Yeah man.
How old are you?
Just turned 37.
-If you don't mind me asking,
Little Rock, what's something like this?
We got this one for $184.
1,500 square feet.
I feel like that's probably
pretty hard to find in a lot of places.
-That is sweet, $184.
-Yeah.
One bought two weeks ago.
Some friends of mine got a new house
and then got some friends
that are about to get one too.
So it's definitely attainable here
for the average person
to be able to live the dream.
-What's your work?
I'm a bartender.
So I'm not even
like a salary gig or anything.
I just enjoy what I do
in the hospitality industry.
-Nice.
My wife does legal assistant work.
We both were in the industry for years
and then just kind of
were able to make this happen.
-So it's American dream…
-…still possible in Little Rock?
-For sure.
Yeah love to see
what $184 buys in Little Rock.
-Yeah come check it out.
-Did you do a lot of work to it?
No. So the family that lived here
was here for 28 years
and they took great care of it.
-Okay.
It was pretty much move in ready.
My wife painted the door,
painted the kitchen.
Got some puppies but they're super chill.
This guy's four and a half months old.
-How you doing?
-Hi!
-Tiffany.
-Peter, nice to meet you.
We're just chilling watching baseball.
-This is awesome.
-It's cool.
-You got the old oak floors right?
-Yeah.
These are all original wood floors.
I think this was built in '57.
-I'll show you the backyard.
-Congrats.
-How's it feel?
-Good.
-Awesome. [laughs]
-Oh, nice man.
-The rainy days
that we've had too are great in here.
-You got a little sunroom out here.
-I call it the rain room sometimes.
It's really nice.
Yeah man.
-This is…
I've got a half acre lot.
-Oh man.
-You're winning here.
-Yeah man.
Look what you can… get here.
It's crazy.
Come back here and have coffee and relax.
Listen to the birds. Everything's awesome.
-Oh nice.
This is all your land
all the way back to the A-frame?
Past it.
-Past it?
-Yeah.
So I think actually this whole stretch here
is some of the largest lots in Broadmoor.
And this is one of the biggest backyards
in the whole neighborhood.
-What's in the A-frame?
It's just like
a little kid's hangout kind of.
-Okay.
You got a swing.
-It's great. Yeah you got a little swing.
-Oh, this is awesome.
-It is.
You just come over here
and it's gorgeous up here.
Peaceful, tranquil.
I feel like I'm out of the city you know?
Not everyone gets a yard like this
but a lot of the homes have a yard.
-You grew up in Little Rock?
Yeah. I call it home here.
I grew up… My military family
when I was really young,
this is where I've grown up.
I went to high school here.
So this is home for me.
[birds chirping]
[Peter] You guys are gonna show us SoMa?
Yeah I'll go show you around. Awesome.
So homeownership here,
I feel like it's not only attainable
to be achieved
and have that part of the American dream
but you can do it and not feel like
all of your money is going towards a home.
We're still able to travel.
We're able to invest.
We're not pinched.
We have room to breathe.
This is the start of SoMa.
So the Southland Main District.
-So this is like the hipster hood.
It's like a artsy, youthful crowd here.
Lots of great shops and restaurants.
Lots of historic places too.
We've got Community Bakery.
It's been there forever.
Midtown Billiards up here
is an iconic bar in Little Rock.
It's been here since
I think pre-World War II.
Now they have big markets out here
and the parking lot.
Got an art scene.
So we're south of the line though.
North of the line
was one Little Rock reality.
South of the line, a different one.
-But this is an exception?
-Oh I see what you're talking about.
You're talking about how
the freeways have divided the city.
-Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, so I feel like originally this was
predominantly wealthy,
and then it changed a lot,
and then a lot of them moved out West,
all of the changes
with the interstates came about
and now it's starting to
come back and revitalize.
-So how new is this? All this stuff
seems like it's pretty fresh.
All the paint and everything.
Yeah I'd say
all of these murals and stuff
probably in the last
six, seven years at the latest.
-Okay.
It's cool seeing
these sort of underdog places.
-I'd call Little Rock an underdog town.
-Yeah.
It has more than you'd think.
Yeah I do too.
I think so and it's constantly
you know, it's a thriving scene
for how small we are.
Pettaway Square is farther down there
and that's another area that's coming up.
Okay what's your take?
The word gentrification.
-Well…
-Or the effect of it.
It's definitely a two-edged sword
you know.
But I can't really feel like
this is doing too much damage
in terms of SoMa's sense
'cause I feel like
a lot of these neighborhoods over here
were run down and there wasn't
a whole lot of people still really living
in a lot of these areas
especially going towards…
-Vacant home situation?
-A lot of vacant areas yeah.
Lots and lots where homes
have been torn down
and they're just
waiting for developers to come in.
And now it's kind of all happened.
People are moving into
this area all the time.
I see it in so many cities
so it really depends who you ask.
If someone owns a home
in one of these places
that are getting gentrified
they seem to be pretty happy.
-Yeah.
-'Cause the value is ripping up.
The homeowners that were living here,
the few that were still there,
I'm sure they got paid pretty well.
Most of them,
from my experience, seem to like it.
And then who doesn't like a neighborhood
becoming safer?
And that's the thing this neighborhood is
injecting a lot of youth to downtown again.
And I think for a long time
Downtown Little Rock was kind of
falling into a phase of getting left behind
and everything was moving
out West towards Chenal.
Out to the burbs where we were.
And now things are coming back
to Downtown Little Rock.
You know not just here on SoMa
but on Main Street and downtown proper.
It's kind of thriving a little bit.
Who doesn't like gentrification?
People that are living
in these places with low rent
and then they're like oh sh*t.
I mean there are sides to everything.
-So double-edged sword.
-It always is.
Like there's no clear answer
and it totally depends who you ask.
But you can look around
and you see all the markets
and it has its benefits.
It's always been a favorite.
He's holding the pawn over here.
He's not looking at it.
And then over here looking at the king
got the candle burning
like the light behind it.
I feel like you can just be a pawn
and be like everything else
or you can aim big and follow the light.
[Hessam] See like these beautiful
turreted style homes.
-People are coming in and renovating these
which is really awesome.
-They don't make homes like these anymore.
-[Peter] Victorian.
-Yeah.
That's kind of the good side
of gentrification you know?
A lot of these homes
have been collecting dust and vines
and falling apart.
-Yeah like that one's
fallen down over there.
-People are coming in and completely
renovating them
and saving them which is great.
Keeping these beautiful historic homes.
-So a lot of your friends you grew up with,
do they stay around town or take off?
-Both. It's the city where people grow up
and go on to other places.
But then a lot of people
will also come back or stay here.
I think it's both.
It satisfies two different angles there.
-[woman] One step.
-[man] One step?
-Go like this.
-Yeah.
Yeah, all right.
[camera shutter clicks]
Good?
Let me see.
[Peter] Oh there you go. Nice.
Graduated high school?
-I'm finna' graduate.
-Nice.
What about your buddy over here?
I'm younger than him.
-You look older.
That what everybody say!
He my older brother.
I'm in the 12th grade and he's 11th.
-Alright alright. Good stuff guys.
We're gonna add a superhero
like Superman.
I see that. I can see that.
She's got a good creative eye.
She's bringing it out of you. See you guys.
[Peter] Alright Hessam,
good tour today man.
We saw a lot.
Above the line, below the line,
everything in between the line,
and now we're back
to the starting point basically.
-Thank you for that.
-It's been a pleasure.
It's nice to have you in our city.
I love seeing the pride of your city.
I'm trying to do more videos
with younger people.
And you're making your dreams happen.
Darren, who we just met,
is making his dream happen.
That woman,
I forget her name, wisdom bombs.
She's making it happen.
And I love seeing that.
Little Rock was
a big surprise for me as well.
First time other than
when I dropped here for 30 minutes
but quite impressive from what I saw.
Awesome. Glad you enjoyed.
And guys,
part of an Arkansas series.
I think I'm gonna do five videos
in total from Arkansas.
If you like this,
the next one, I'm going to Pine Bluff.
Which is a different reality.
And then going up to Bentonville,
which is totally different
from what I've heard.
-Totally different.
-Ozarks, Delta, all over the state.
Alright you guys,
thanks for coming on that journey.
Until the next one.
[jazz music]